feat: rocketmq logger (#5653)
apache/apisix: docs/en/latest/plugins/rocketmq-logger.md

---
title: rocketmq-logger
---

<!--
#
# Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
# contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
# this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
# The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
# (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
# the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
#
#     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
#
# Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
# distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
# WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
# See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
# limitations under the License.
#
-->

## Summary

- [**Name**](#name)
- [**Attributes**](#attributes)
- [**Info**](#info)
- [**How To Enable**](#how-to-enable)
- [**Test Plugin**](#test-plugin)
- [**Disable Plugin**](#disable-plugin)

## Name

`rocketmq-logger` is a plugin which provides the ability to push requests log data as JSON objects to your external rocketmq clusters.

> This plugin provides the ability to push requests log data as JSON objects to your external rocketmq clusters. In case if you did not receive the log data don't worry give it some time it will automatically send the logs after the timer function expires in our Batch Processor.

Reviewer: Why should we repeat it?

Author: duplication deleted now , that was copied from kafka-logger

| include_req_body | boolean | optional    | false          | [false, true] | Whether to include the request body. false: indicates that the requested body is not included; true: indicates that the requested body is included. Note: if the request body is too big to be kept in the memory, it can't be logged due to Nginx's limitation. |
| include_req_body_expr  | array  | optional    |          |         | When `include_req_body` is true, control the behavior based on the result of the [lua-resty-expr](https://github.com/api7/lua-resty-expr) expression. If present, only log the request body when the result is true. |
| include_resp_body| boolean | optional    | false         | [false, true] | Whether to include the response body. The response body is included if and only if it is `true`. |
| include_resp_body_expr  | array  | optional    |          |         | When `include_resp_body` is true, control the behavior based on the result of the [lua-resty-expr](https://github.com/api7/lua-resty-expr) expression. If present, only log the response body when the result is true. |

### examples of meta_format

- **default**:

>     ```json

Author: done

       "headers": {
         "host": "localhost",
         "content-length": "6",
         "connection": "close"
       },
       "body": "abcdef",
       "method": "GET"
     },
     "response": {
       "headers": {
         "connection": "close",
         "content-type": "text/plain; charset=utf-8",
         "date": "Mon, 26 Apr 2021 05:18:14 GMT",
         "server": "APISIX/2.5",
         "transfer-encoding": "chunked"
       },
       "size": 190,
       "status": 200
     },
     "server": {
       "hostname": "localhost",
       "version": "2.5"
     },
     "latency": 0
    }
```

- **origin**:

```http
    GET /hello?ab=cd HTTP/1.1
    host: localhost
    content-length: 6
    connection: close

    abcdef
```

## Info

The `message` will write to the buffer first.
It will send to the rocketmq server when the buffer exceed the `batch_max_size`,
or every `buffer_duration` flush the buffer.

In case of success, returns `true`.
In case of errors, returns `nil` with a string describing the error (`buffer overflow`).

### Sample Nameserver list

Specify the nameservers of the external rocketmq servers as below sample.

```json
{

>     "127.0.0.1":9876,

Reviewer 2: Need to update the nameserver format.

---
title: rocketmq-logger
---

<!--
#
# Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
# contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
# this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
# The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
# (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
# the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
#
#     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
#
# Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
# distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
# WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
# See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
# limitations under the License.
#
-->

## Summary

- [**Name**](#name)
- [**Attributes**](#attributes)
- [**Info**](#info)
- [**How To Enable**](#how-to-enable)
- [**Test Plugin**](#test-plugin)
- [**Disable Plugin**](#disable-plugin)

## Name

> `rocketmq-logger` is a plugin which works as a rocketmq client driver for the ngx_lua nginx module.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`rocketmq-logger` is a plugin which provides the ability to push requests log data as JSON objects to your external rocketmq clusters.
```

We can merge the sentence of the next phase into it.
